Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?

A.  A programming language is a vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for
    instructing a computer or computing device to perform specific tasks.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?

A. Java Compiler: Reads class and interface definitions and compiles them into bytecode class files.
   Java Interpreter: Interprets the .class Java files that have been compiled by Java compiler.
   Java Disassembler: Disassembles one or more class files.
   Java Header File Generator: Generates header and source files that are needed to implement native methods.
   Java Documentation: Helps to maintain code with proper documentation.
   Java Debugger: Provides inspection and debugging of a local or remote Java Virtual Machine.

What is IDE?

A. Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?

A. Eclipse, IntelliJ and others.

Explain the entire java life cycle.

A.
- Any text editor can be used to create the high-level Java text file.
- File is saved as a .java file on the disk.
- Compile this text file using the Java compiler
- .class file being created on the disk. The .class file contains the bytecodes.
- file is loaded into memory by the class loader.
- bytecode verifier confirms bytecodes are valid and not hostile.
- JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and translates them into machine code.

what is class?

A.  It's a blueprint describing the behavior and state of the object of its type.

What is object?

A.  Instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?

A.  Main method

Why main is static?

A.  Because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made.
    Since it is static it can be directly invoked via the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?

A.  java.lang.Object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?

A.  - Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
    - Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path of classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?

A.  Interface can only declare but cannot implement methods.
    Abstract class can declare and implement methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?

A.  No. Instantiate subclasses.

what is Access Specifier?

A.  Keyword in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes, methods, and other members.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.

A.  -Object Oriented Programming.
    -Features: Classes, Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?

A.  -Package in Java is used to encapsulate a group of classes, sub packages and interfaces. It prevents naming conflicts,
    makes searching and locating easier and provides controlled access.
    -Three packages are imported by default for each source file. First, the package with no name.
    Second, the java.lang package. And third, the current package (the package in which the current file is defined).

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.

A.  -Application Programming Interface is a set of definitions,
    communication protocols and tools for building software.
    -Scanner, String, Math, Random, etc.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?

A.  - No... I am sure you are looking at this answer especially. =)
    - To avoid ambiguity error java does not support multiple inheritance through class.

What is method overloading and when it happens?

A.  Having methods with the same name. It's used when there are methods that functions by doing the same thing.


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.

A.  An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program,
    that disrupts the normal flow of the program's instructions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?

A.  Static is a non-access modifier in Java which is applicable for the following:
    blocks; variables; methods; nested classes.
    Static method belong to the class instead of an object of class.
    Static variables are initialized only once, at the start of the execution.


What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?

A.   -It is used to define an entity that can only be assigned once.
     -It can only be initialized once and a final method cannot be overridden.

What is final, finally and finalize?

A.  final - value of final variables cannot be changed once initialized. Final class cannot be subclassed. Final
    method cannot be overridden.

    finally - keyword is used in association with a try/catch block and guarantees that a section of code will be executed,
    even if an exception is thrown.

    finalize - is a method that performs clean-up activity. The Garbage Collector always calls it just before the
    deleting or destroying the object which is eligible for Garbage Collection.

What is a constructor?

A.  -Block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?

A.  Yes ofcourse

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?

A.  Class

What is "this" keyword in java ?

A.  Variable referring to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?

A.  Refer parent class objects. We can use it two ways.

What is JVM stand for ?

A.  Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?

A. Yes

What version of java are you using?

A. 1.8.0_201

What is JAR stand for ?

A.  Java ARchive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?

A.  -JDK provides the environment to develop and execute the Java program.
    -JVM is part of the JDK and it is responsible for executing the java program line by line.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?

A.  -JVM is important part of both JDK and JRE because it is contained or inbuilt in both.
    -JRE is an installation package which provides environment to only run(not develop) the
    java program(or application)onto your machine.


What is compile time and run time?

A.

What is heap?

A.

How java manage it's memory?

A.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?

A.

What is Singleton class?

A.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?

A.

when to use transient variable in java?

A.

Difference between while and do..while loop?

A.

What is Enum?

A.

What is Iterator?

A.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?

A.

Why is String Immutable in Java?

A.

What is constructor chaining in Java?

A.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?

A.

What is JIT stands for?

A.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?

A.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?

A.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?

A.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?

A.

what is multithreading in java?

A.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?

A.

What is Framework?

A.

What are the testing Framework available in java?

A.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?

A.

What are the dependencies for this project?

A.

what is dependency injection in java?

A.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?

A.









